---
layout: post
title: No.
lead: The importance of saying no.
---

## No.

High cohesion is by now an axiomatic goal for those of us that organize and model concepts. We want our components 
well-defined: most ideally with only one purpose and with crystal clear invariants and properties. Cherry on top being a contract 
that cleanly expresses, always considering context and scope, what it expects to receive and what it promises to give back.

So the endless guideline "move towards higher cohesion" may be applied not only to technical discussions like continuous 
improvement for teams and their procedures or codebase refactorings but to almost anything at any scope: societies, teams, families
and finally individuals and ourselves. And there is a lot say about how it applies to each of those.

There's also a side effect to high cohesion: the possibility to couple more. Coupling through the wrong type of
relationship won't help either side. Breaking individual cohesion creates resistance. In the business context
think of successful vs unsuccessful mergers and acquisitions. In the technical context think of good vs bad code refactorings. In the personal 
context think of healthy vs toxic people in our lives or inversely, when we have individually been a positive or 
negative influence on others.

Rock solid foundations while continuously redefining guardrails is essential to enable growth through coupling without breaking cohesion. To understand when 
to say 'no' because of incompatibility. It is very easy to lose sight of this and couple incorrectly. There are tangible occurrences of this
for every single example mentioned before.

Answer 'why?' with an immutable answer. And say 'no' to any 'how?' that cannot explain how it will grow it. Some explanations are
deceiving and attractive, they challenge the immutable purpose, and it is hard to notice it. And if they rightfully challenge it, it is very likely time to rebuild everything.